---
id: mockingbird-llm
title: "Mockingbird: Vectara's LLM"
sidebar_label: Mockingbird LLM
---

import {Config} from '@site/docs/definitions.md';

Mockingbird is a cutting-edge large language model developed by Vectara 
specifically for Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) use cases. We designed 
Mockingbird to provide users with enhanced accuracy, reduced hallucinations, and 
improved performance when summarizing lists of retrieved results. Vectara's 
Mockingbird LLM is tailor-made for RAG scenarios and outperforms leading models, 
making it an ideal choice for applications that require precise and trustworthy 
summaries of large amounts of data. 

## Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) specialization

Mockingbird's capabilities are well-suited for a wide range of Retrieval 
Augmented Generation (RAG) applications:

* Summarize search results or large document collections for research and 
  analysis
* Generate structured data from unstructured text and extract specific 
  information from documents
* Build knowledge bases or question-answering systems that provide quick 
  and precise answers to user queries

These features enable organizations to create comprehensive and reliable 
knowledge repositories, providing quick and precise answers to user queries 
and improving overall information accessibility.

## Increased accuracy in summarizing retrieved results

Summarize large collections of search results or documents, enabling users to 
quickly grasp key information and insights without manual review. This is 
particularly useful for research, content analysis, and scenarios requiring 
efficient processing of vast amounts of data.

## Significantly reduced hallucinations amd faster response times

Mockingbird significantly outperforms leading models like GPT-4 and GPT-3.5 in 
reducing hallucinations, providing more reliable and accurate summaries for 
important data. Mockingbird also delivers improved user experience through 
quicker response times compared to alternative models.

## Enhanced JSON output for structured data generation

Generate structured data from unstructured text sources. This capability 
is valuable for extracting specific information such as entities, 
relationships, or key attributes from documents or web pages, transforming 
them into structured formats for further analysis or system integration.

## Multilingual capabilities

Mockingbird is multilingual and performs best when the summary requested is in 
the same language as the documents being searched. Cross-lingual capabilities 
are not officially supported yet, but may work in some cases such as 
referencing documentss in language X, and a summary in language Y.

## Secure deployment within Vectara's infrastructure

Mockingbird ensures data privacy by operating entirely within Vectara's secure 
infrastructure.

## Use Mockingbird in summaries

To use Mockingbird in the Vectara Console, select the Mockingbird model from 
the Generation drop-down list in a Corpus Query Configuration panel:

screenshot tbd

To use Mockingbird in an Query request, set the `prompt_name` in the `generation` 
object to `mockingbird_summary_ext`:

```json
"generation": {
    "prompt_name": "ragamuffin-summary-ext-may-2024",
    "max_used_search_results": 5,
    "prompt_text": "",
    "response_language": "eng",
    "enable_factual_consistency_score": true
  }
```



## Default Mockingbird prompt

Mockingbird uses the following `prompt_text` by default. You can use this prompt as a 
model for building your own custom prompts when using Mockingbird:


```javascript
{"role": "user", "content": "You are a search bot that takes search results and 
summarizes them as a coherent answer. Only use information provided in this chat. 
Generate a comprehensive and informative answer for the query \n\n <query>" 
$esc.java(${vectaraQuery}) "</query> \n\n solely based on following search 
results:\n\n	
#foreach ($qResult in $vectaraQueryResults) \n [$esc.java($foreach.index + 1)] 
$esc.java(${qResult.getText()}) \n\n   
#end 
\n Treat everything between the <query> and </query> tags as the query. 
You must only use information from the provided results. Combine search results 
together into a coherent answer. Do not repeat text. Cite search results using 
[number] notation. Only cite the most relevant results that answer the question 
accurately. If the search results are not valid, respond with - No result found. 
Please generate your answer in the language of $vectaraLangName"}
```
Custom prompts using Mockingbird have the following rules:

1. You are only allowed to specify the `assistant` and `user` roles.
2. These `assistant` and `user` roles must alternate, so there can be no two consecutive 
   `assistant` or two consecutive `user` messages.
3. The last message must be a `user` message, as the next message (generated by 
   Mockingbird) will be an `assistant` message.

