---
id: api-access-overview-old
title: Types of API Keys
sidebar_label: Types of API Keys
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import {vars} from '@site/static/variables.json';
import {Config} from '@site/docs/definitions.md';

<Config v="names.product"/> provides a comprehensive authorization system that accommodates a wide 
range of use cases and caters to different development and deployment 
environments. Your Generative AI journey may be in the early stages of 
exploration and prototyping, or a more advanced production deployment. Our 
advanced authentication system includes Personal API Keys, Index and Query API 
Keys, and OAuth 2.0 Tokens.

## Personal API Keys

Personal API Keys help developers in early stages of exploration and 
prototyping with Vectara. This method provides a straightforward getting 
started experience for integrating accounts with external applications without 
the complexity of OAuth authentication. You can use Personal API Keys when 
putting together a quick prototype or if you are working on an integration 
that does not yet support OAuth 2.0.

Personal API Keys let you perform tasks including creating, deleting, and 
listing corpora, managing API keys for accessible corpora, reading usage 
data, updating corpora filters, executing queries, and indexing.

:::caution

A Personal API Key inherits the permissions of the user account it is 
associated with. For instance, a key generated by a billing admin will possess 
only billing admin-related permissions. Because of their broad access, treat 
Personal API Keys with the same caution as passwords.

:::

## Query API Keys

Query API Keys are recommended for read-only querying operations and are 
designed for embedding in code that runs in potentially insecure environments 
like web browsers or mobile apps. Query API Keys provide the least amount of 
risk because they have a limited scope and do not modify account data.

## Index API Keys

Index API Keys offer a practical solution for development and testing phases 
for when you need read and write access. Because they also provide write 
access, Index API Keys are more powerful than Query API Keys and should be 
treated like passwords and used with caution in production environments.

## OAuth 2.0 Tokens

OAuth 2.0 provides the most secure authentication method for production 
environments. Capabilities like automated token expiration provide inherent 
benefits over API Keys.

## API Key Prefixes

For ease of identification, the API Key types each have a specific prefix:

* Personal API Keys begin with `zut_`
* Query API Keys begin with `zqt_`
* Index API Keys begin with `zwt_`
